Format the CI and CD stage spec (#53)
cdevents/spec: continuous-deployment-pipeline-events.md

__Note:__ This is a work-in-progress draft version and is being worked on by members of the Events SIG. You are very welcome to join the work and the discussions!

Continuous Deployment (CD) events are related to continuos deployment pipelines and their target environments. These events can be emitted by environments to report where software artifacts such as services, binaries, daemons, jobs or embedded software are running.

## Subjects

This specification defines two subjects in this stage: `environment` and `service`. The term `service` is used to represent a running Artifact. A `service` can represent a binary that is running, a daemon, an application, a docker container. The term `environment` represent any platform which has all the means to run a `service`.

| Subject | Description | Predicates |
|---------|-------------|------------|

> | [`environment`](#environment) | A environment where to run services | [`created`](#environment-created), [`modified`](#environment-modified), [`deleted`](#environment-deleted)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`environment`](#environment) | An environment where to run services | [`created`](#environment-created), [`modified`](#environment-modified), [`deleted`](#environment-deleted)|
```

| [`service`](#service) | A service | [`deployed`](#service-deployed), [`upgraded`](#service-upgraded), [`rolledback`](#service-rolledback), [`removed`](#service-removed), [`published`](#service-published)|

### `environment`

An `environment` is a platform which may run a `service`.

| Field | Type | Description | Examples |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|
| id    | `String` | Uniquely identifies the subject within the source. | `1234`, `maven123`, `builds/taskrun123` |
| source | `URI-Reference` | [source](../spec.md#source) from the context | `staging/tekton`, `tekton-dev-123`|
| name | `String` | Name of the environment | `dev`, `staging`, `production`, `ci-123`|
| url | `String` | URL to reference where the environment is located | `https://my-cluster.zone.my-cloud-provider`|

### `service`

> A `service` can represent a binary that is running, a daemon, an application, a docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `service` can represent for example a binary that is running, a daemon, an application or a docker container.
```

| Field | Type | Description | Examples |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|
| id    | `String` | Uniquely identifies the subject within the source. | `service/myapp`, `daemonset/myapp` |
| source | `URI-Reference` | [source](../spec.md#source) from the context | `staging/tekton`, `tekton-dev-123`|
| environmentId | `String` | Id of the environment where the service runs | `dev`, `staging`, `production`, `ci-123`|

## Events

### `environment created`

> This event represents an environment that has been created and it can be used to deploy services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event represents an environment that has been created. Such an environment can be used to deploy services in.
```

- Event Type: __`dev.cdevents.environment.created`__
- Predicate: created
- Subject: [`environment`](#environment)

| Field | Type | Description | Examples | Mandatory ✅ \| Optional ⚪ |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|----------------------------|
| id    | `String` | Uniquely identifies the subject within the source. | `tenant1/12345-abcde`, `namespace/pipelinerun-1234` | ✅ |
| source | `URI-Reference` | [source](../spec.md#source) from the context | | ⚪ |
| name | `String` | Name of the environment | `dev`, `staging`, `production`, `ci-123`| ⚪ |
| url | `String` | URL to reference where the environment is located | `https://my-cluster.zone.my-cloud-provider`| ⚪ |

### `environment modified`

> This event represents an environment that has been modified, this event advertise the changes made in the environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event represents an environment that has been modified.
```

- Event Type: __`dev.cdevents.environment.modified`__
- Predicate: modified
- Subject: [`environment`](#environment)

| Field | Type | Description | Examples | Mandatory ✅ \| Optional ⚪ |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|----------------------------|
| id    | `String` | Uniquely identifies the subject within the source. | `tenant1/12345-abcde`, `namespace/pipelinerun-1234` | ✅ |
| source | `URI-Reference` | [source](../spec.md#source) from the context | | ⚪ |
| name | `String` | Name of the environment | `dev`, `staging`, `production`, `ci-123`| ⚪ |
| url | `String` | URL to reference where the environment is located | `https://my-cluster.zone.my-cloud-provider`| ⚪ |

### `environment deleted`

> This event represents an environment that has been modified, this event advertise the changes made in the environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event represents an environment that has been deleted.```

- Event Type: __`dev.cdevents.environment.deleted`__
- Predicate: deleted
- Subject: [`environment`](#environment)

| Field | Type | Description | Examples | Mandatory ✅ \| Optional ⚪ |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|----------------------------|
| id    | `String` | Uniquely identifies the subject within the source. | `tenant1/12345-abcde`, `namespace/pipelinerun-1234` | ✅ |
| source | `URI-Reference` | [source](../spec.md#source) from the context | | ⚪ |
| name | `String` | Name of the environment | `dev`, `staging`, `production`, `ci-123`| ⚪ |

### `service deployed`

This event represents a new instance of a service that has been deployed

- Event Type: __`dev.cdevents.service.deployed`__
- Predicate: deployed
- Subject: [`service`](#service)

| Field | Type | Description | Examples | Mandatory ✅ \| Optional ⚪ |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|----------------------------|
| id    | `String` | Uniquely identifies the subject within the source. | `service/myapp`, `daemonset/myapp` | ✅ |

> | environmentId | `String` | Id of the environment where the service runs | `dev`, `staging`, `production`, `ci-123`| ✅ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| environmentId | `String` | Id of the environment where the service is deployed| `dev`, `staging`, `production`, `ci-123`| ✅ |
```

> ### `service upgraded`

Reviewer: Maybe it is not suitable for this review, but how would this event show what old service what upgraded? Or if the id intends to refer to that service, what is the identity (version) of the upgraded service?

Author: Yes, the data model is incomplete. I purposely did not add new fields in the PR so that we could merge it quickly and work on the data model completion in dedicated small PRs.

This event represents an existing instance of a service that has been upgraded to a new version

- Event Type: __`dev.cdevents.service.upgraded`__
- Predicate: upgraded
- Subject: [`service`](#service)

| Field | Type | Description | Examples | Mandatory ✅ \| Optional ⚪ |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|----------------------------|
| id    | `String` | Uniquely identifies the subject within the source. | `service/myapp`, `daemonset/myapp` | ✅ |
| environmentId | `String` | Id of the environment where the service runs | `dev`, `staging`, `production`, `ci-123`| ✅ |

> ### `service rolledback`

Reviewer: Similar to upgrade. How can we see the different versions through this event?

Author: Ditto

> This event represents an existing of a service that has been rolledback to a previous version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event represents an existing instance of a service that has been rolledback to a previous version
```

- Event Type: __`dev.cdevents.service.rolledback`__
- Predicate: rolledback
- Subject: [`service`](#service)

| Field | Type | Description | Examples | Mandatory ✅ \| Optional ⚪ |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|----------------------------|
| id    | `String` | Uniquely identifies the subject within the source. | `service/myapp`, `daemonset/myapp` | ✅ |
| environmentId | `String` | Id of the environment where the service runs | `dev`, `staging`, `production`, `ci-123`| ✅ |

### `service removed`

> This event represents an existing of a service that has been terminated an it is not longer present in an environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event represents the removal of a previously deployed service instance and is thus not longer present in the specified environment
```

Author: I preserved the existing text but it's a good idea to improve it :)

- Event Type: __`dev.cdevents.service.removed`__
- Predicate: removed
- Subject: [`service`](#service)

| Field | Type | Description | Examples | Mandatory ✅ \| Optional ⚪ |
|-------|------|-------------|----------|----------------------------|
| id    | `String` | Uniquely identifies the subject within the source. | `service/myapp`, `daemonset/myapp` | ✅ |
| environmentId | `String` | Id of the environment where the service runs | `dev`, `staging`, `production`, `ci-123`| ✅ |

### `service published`

> This event represents an existing of a service that has an accessible URL for users to interact with it. This event can be used to let other tools know that the service is ready and also available for consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event represents an existing instance of a service that has an accessible URL for users to interact with it. This event can be used to let other tools know that the service is ready and also available for consumption.
```
